DDS: Bind 9 v1.1.0 (#2499)
DataDog/integrations-extras: bind9/README.md

## Overview

> [Bind 9][19] is a complete, highly portable implementation of the Domain Name System (DNS) protocol. The Bind9 name server (named), can act as an authoritative name server, recursive resolver, DNS forwarder, or all three simultaneously.

Reviewer: The correct name seems to be "BIND 9", but I know this integration already exists, so maybe just replace instances of "Bind9" with "Bind 9" to keep it consistent within the integration docs? This may not be possible since some of the configuration instructions reference "Bind9" and that might be important to keep. Regardless, I recommend making all the references consistent.

Author: Replaced instances of "Bind9" to "Bind 9" apart from the configuration steps where it's not possible to update.

> This integration provides enrichment and visualization for Query, Query Errors, Network, Lame Servers, Notify, and Security log types. It helps to visualize detailed insights into DNS request patterns, DNS communication and proper server configurations, DNS attacks, ensuring a robust and reliable DNS environment through the out-of-the-box dashboards. Additionally, This integration provides out of the box detection rules. Also, it will collect bind9 stats in form of metrics that can be used for visualizations as needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This integration provides enrichment and visualization for Query, Query Errors, Network, Lame Servers, Notify, and Security log types. It helps to visualize detailed insights into DNS request patterns, DNS communication, proper server configurations, and DNS attacks, ensuring a robust and reliable DNS environment through the out-of-the-box dashboards. Additionally, this integration provides out-of-the-box detection rules. Also, it will collect Bind 9 stats in form of metrics that can be used for visualizations as needed.
```

Author: Done

## Setup

### Installation

To install the Bind9 integration, run the following Agent installation command and the steps below. For more information, see the [Integration Management][14] documentation.

**Note**: This step is not necessary for Agent version >= 7.58.0.

Linux command
  ```shell
  sudo -u dd-agent -- datadog-agent integration install datadog-bind9==1.1.0
  ```

#### Log collection

#### File Monitoring

1. Log in to your Bind9 device.

> 2. Open `named.conf` file to add a logging clause:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open the `named.conf` file to add a logging clause:
```

Author: Done

    }
    ```
    **NOTE**: Recommended value for `print-time` is `iso8601-utc` because datadog expects all logs to be in the UTC time zone by default. If the timezone of your Bind9 logs is not UTC please make sure to follow [these](#timezone-steps) steps. Also, check the categories defined by Bind9 [here][16].
    
    Example logging channel:
    ```
    logging {
     channel default_log {
          file "/var/log/named/query.log" versions 3 size 10m;
          print-time iso8601-utc;
          print-category yes;
          print-severity yes;
     };
       category default { default_log; };
    }
    ```
3. Save and exit the file.
4. Restart the service
    ```
    service named restart
    ```

#### Syslog
1. Log in to your Bind9 device.
2. Open `named.conf` file to add a logging clause:
    ```
    logging {
     channel <example_channel> {
          syslog <syslog_facility>;
          severity (critical | error | warning | notice | info | debug [level ] | dynamic);
          print-time (yes | local | iso8601 | iso8601-utc);
          print-category yes;
          print-severity yes;
     };
     category <example-category> { <example_channel>; };
    }
    ```

>     **NOTE**: Recommended value for `print-time` is `iso8601-utc` because Datadog expects all logs to be in the UTC time zone by default. If the timezone of your Bind9 logs is not UTC please make sure to follow [these](#timezone-steps) steps. Also, check the categories defined by Bind9 [here][16].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **NOTE**: Recommended value for `print-time` is `iso8601-utc` because Datadog expects all logs to be in the UTC time zone by default. If the timezone of your Bind9 logs is not UTC please make sure to follow [the steps for using a different time zone](#timezone-steps). Also, [check the categories defined by Bind9][16].
```

Author: Done

    
    Example logging channel:
    ```
    logging {
     channel default_log {
          syslog local3;
          print-time iso8601-utc;
          print-category yes;
          print-severity yes;
     };
       category default { default_log; };
    }
    ```

3. Save and exit the file.

> 4. Edit the syslog/rsyslog configuration to log to your Datadog using the facility you selected in Bind9:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Edit the syslog/rsyslog configuration to log to Datadog using the facility you selected in Bind9:
```

Author: Done

    ```
    <syslog_facility>.* @@<DATADOG_AGENT_IP_ADDRESS>:<PORT>
    ```
5. Restart the following services.
    ```
    service syslog/rsyslog restart
    service named restart
    ```

> **Note**: Make sure you have mentioned `print-category` and `print-severity` as yes in the channels configured for Bind9 application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Make sure `print-category` and `print-severity` are set to `yes` in the channels configured for Bind9 application.
```

Author: Done

### Configuration

#### Metric collection

1. Edit the `bind9.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][7] to start collecting your Bind9 [metrics](#metrics). See the [sample bind9.d/conf.yaml][8] for all available configuration options.

   ```yaml
   init_config:
  
   instances:
     - url: "<BIND_9_STATS_URL>"
   ```

2. [Restart the Agent][9]

#### Log collection

1. Collecting logs is disabled by default in the Datadog Agent. Enable it in the `datadog.yaml` file:

   ```yaml
   logs_enabled: true
   ```

> #### File Monitoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### File monitoring
```

Author: Done

1. Add this configuration block to your `bind9.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your Bind9 logs.

   See the [sample bind9.d/conf.yaml][8] for available configuration options.

   ```yaml
   logs:
     - type: file
       path: /var/log/named/*.log
       service: bind9
       source: bind9
   ```

>    **Note**: Change the `path` variable in `conf.yaml` to the same as configured in `file` parameter in channels for Bind9 application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   **Note**: Change the `path` variable in `conf.yaml` to the same path configured in the `file` parameter in channels for Bind9 application.
```
Should the last part be "for the Bind9 application"?

Author: Yes, Sure

3. [Restart the Agent][9].

#### Syslog
1. Add this configuration block to your `bind9.d/conf.yaml` file to start collecting your Bind9 logs.

   See the [sample bind9.d/conf.yaml][8] for available configuration options.

   ```yaml
   logs:
     - type: tcp
       port: <PORT>
       service: bind9
       source: bind9
   ```
   **Note**: Value of `port` should be the same as mentioned in `syslog.conf/rsyslog.conf`.

3. [Restart the Agent][9].

<h4 id="timezone-steps"> Specify a time zone other than UTC in the Bind9 Datadog log pipeline</h4>

> Datadog expects all logs to be in the UTC time zone by default. If the timezone of your Bind9 logs is not UTC, specify the correct time zone in the Bind9 Datadog pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog expects all logs to be in the UTC time zone by default. If the time zone of your Bind9 logs is not UTC, specify the correct time zone in the Bind9 Datadog pipeline.
```

> To change the time zone in Bind9 pipeline:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To change the time zone in the Bind9 pipeline:
```

  1. Navigate to the [Pipelines page][15] in the Datadog app. 

  2. Enter "Bind9" in the  **Filter Pipelines** search box.

  3. Hover over the Bind9 pipeline and click on the **clone**  button. This will create an editable clone of the Bind9 pipeline.

  4. Edit the Grok Parser using the below steps:
      - In the cloned pipeline, find a processor with the name "Grok Parser: Parsing Bind9 common log format" and click on the `Edit` button by hovering over the pipeline.

>       - Under **Define parsing rules**,,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Under **Define parsing rules**,
```

Author: Done
